# About the Meta-Brain Project

## Summary (TL;DR)

The Meta-Brain project aims to collect information about projects that provide
digital and hands-on solutions for problems faced by people who are emigrating
to or seeking refuge in Germany (Europe) and the volunteers who are helping them
get settled. This document describes in more detail [why](#why) we think this is
important, [what](#what) our goals are, [who](#who) we are, and the
[status](#status) of our own project.

## <a name="why"></a>Why do you do this?

Many people, on separate occasions (links to resources), have come to the
conclusion that there is a massive duplication of effort in particular when it
comes to digital solutions for immigration related problems. Even though others
have collected such projects (and we are grateful for that), we do not know
anyone who has or can provide a thorough overview. We want to provide a
manageable overview that can be integrated by anyone.

## <a name="what"></a>What's the big idea?

To be more specific, we collect projects through online research and categorize
them according to [our hierarchy](category.md). We store the data in a database
that provides a very liberal and [RESTful
API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) mostly via
JSON. The [API](api.md) enables specific views on the data. We want all the
content to be available in multiple languages.

For the moment, we provide a simple frontend that allows searching, listing,
sorting projects.  We have further views on the data in mind and our API will
evovlve in tune with envisioned frontends. If you want to develop a view on the
data [get in touch](contact.md)!

With a growing userbase, we want to enable projects to enter and update their
information. We also look forward to their input regarding our system of
categories. All of our software is developed with liberal open source licenses
and so is the collected data.

## <a name="who"></a>Who is behind this?

The Meta-Brain project came into being at the [refugee
hackathon](http://refugeehackathon.de/) in Berlin, Oct 2015. From the original
group of about a dozen people, four remain active today. The project is
continued in collaboration with the [Open Knowledge
Lab](http://berlin.codefor.de/) in Berlin. The majority of the work is being
done by a group of students from the [TU Berlin]().

You can find out more about [our team](team.md) and you are absolutely welcome
to join us even if you only have a few hours to spare. Do [write to
us](contact.md) with any criticism, questions, ideas or praise that you might
have.

## <a name="status"></a>Is this ready to use?

At the moment we are actively researching and categorizing projects, as well as
working on the software systems. As soon as we launch our project this
documentation will be found online.

